---
title: 'Automatic Term Extraction'
date: 2022-08-03
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Term
  - Automatic Term Extraction
  - Language Technology
---
This article is a short overview of terms and terminology extraction. In subsequent articles, we'll look at frequency based and machine learning based approaches to Automatic Term Extraction. Automatic Term Extraction (ATE) is the task of extracting relevant terms from domain specific corpora. Terms can be defined as linguistic units that refer to domain specific concepts in a world model. To illustrate, in the domain of education an institution that imparts education to children is a concept and we refer to this concept by the word school in English. Thus, identification of a word or a multiword expression as a term is highly dependent on the individual’s subjective notion of the concept, for example how does the individual define education and whether institution is an important concept in this domain as per the subjective opinion of the person. This in turn makes ATE a more challenging problem to tackle. Term extractors also play a critical role in ontology engineering as identification of terms and relationships amongst them can be used to identify important concepts and conceptual relations which in turn serve as building blocks for ontologies. They are also used in the development of language technology such as machine translation and summarization systems. Furthermore, they serve as the key building blocks of information retrieval systems as they allow eﬀicient indexing of relevant documents together on the basis of terms thus playing a critical role in reducing the overall search time and improving the scalability of these systems. Although term extraction has been an active area of research in the past few decades, most of the research in this domain has primarily been focused on English . Out of the 7,100+ languages being used around the world most are under-resourced with limited access to language technology tools.

------
